SAO doc improvements (#8234)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/state-aware-about.md

State-aware orchestration uses shared state tracking to determine which models need to be built by detecting changes in code or data every time a job runs. It also supports custom refresh intervals and custom source freshness configurations, so <Constant name="cloud" /> only rebuilds models when they're actually needed.

For example, you can configure your project so that <Constant name="cloud" /> skips rebuilding the `dim_wizards` model (and its parents) if they’ve already been refreshed within the last 4 hours, even if the job itself runs more frequently.

Without configuring anything, <Constant name="cloud" />'s state-aware orchestration automatically knows to build your models either when the code has changed or if there’s any new data in a source (or upstream model in the case of [dbt Mesh](/docs/mesh/about-mesh)).

> ### Detecting code changes

Author: Added this section

State-aware orchestration uses shared state tracking to determine which models need to be built by detecting changes in code or data every time a job runs. It also supports custom refresh intervals and custom source freshness configurations, so <Constant name="cloud" /> only rebuilds models when they're actually needed.

For example, you can configure your project so that <Constant name="cloud" /> skips rebuilding the `dim_wizards` model (and its parents) if they’ve already been refreshed within the last 4 hours, even if the job itself runs more frequently.

Without configuring anything, <Constant name="cloud" />'s state-aware orchestration automatically knows to build your models either when the code has changed or if there’s any new data in a source (or upstream model in the case of [dbt Mesh](/docs/mesh/about-mesh)).

### Handling concurrent jobs

> If two separate jobs both depend on the same downstream model (for example, `model_ab`), and both jobs detect upstream changes (`updates_on = any`), then `model_ab` may run twice (once per job) because each job detects a change that triggers a rebuild. However, if nothing has changed since the most recent build, neither job needs to rebuild `model_ab`. They will reuse the already built `model_ab` instead of rebuilding it again.

Reviewer: this is great! just sugg shortening it for conciseness
```suggestion
If two separate jobs both depend on the same downstream model (for example, `model_ab`) and both detect upstream changes (`updates_on = any`), `model_ab` could run twice &mdash; once for each job. However, if `model_ab` was already built and nothing has changed since that build, neither job will rebuild it. Instead, both jobs will reuse the existing version instead of rebuilding.
```

Under state-aware orchestration, all jobs read and write from the same shared state and build a model only when either the code or data state has changed. This means that each job individually evaulates whether a model needs rebuilding based on the model’s compiled code and upstream data state.

What happens when jobs overlap:

- If both jobs reach the same model at exactly the same time, one job waits until the other finishes. This is to prevent collisions in the data warehouse when two jobs try to build the same model at the same time.

> - After the first job finishes, the second job still checks whether a rebuild for the model is needed. The job may choose to reuse the existing result or perform another build, depending on changes detected.

Reviewer 2: I might not use the language "may choose" here, as it's really more like a rule. 

How about something like:
After the first job finishes building the model, the second job still checks whether a rebuild for the model is needed. If there are new data or code changes to incorporate, the model will be built, while if there are no changes and building it will produce the same result, the model will be reused.

> If you want to prevent a job from being built too frequently even when the code or data state has changed, you can reduce build frequency by using the `build_after` config. For information on how to use `build_after`, refer to [Model freshness](/reference/resource-configs/freshness) and [Advanced configurations](/docs/deploy/state-aware-setup#advanced-configurations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent a job from being built too frequently even when the code or data state has changed, you can reduce build frequency by using the `build_after` config. For information on how to use `build_after`, refer to [Model freshness](/reference/resource-configs/freshness) and [Advanced configurations](/docs/deploy/state-aware-setup#advanced-configurations).
```

For example, you can configure your project so that <Constant name="cloud" /> skips rebuilding the `dim_wizards` model (and its parents) if they’ve already been refreshed within the last 4 hours, even if the job itself runs more frequently.

Without configuring anything, <Constant name="cloud" />'s state-aware orchestration automatically knows to build your models either when the code has changed or if there’s any new data in a source (or upstream model in the case of [dbt Mesh](/docs/mesh/about-mesh)).

### Detecting code changes

State-aware orchestration evaluates model changes based on _compiled SQL code_, rather than the pre-rendered code.

- Every macro, variable, or templated logic is resolved before state-aware orchestration checks for changes.
- If you use dynamic content (for example, `{{ run_started_at }}`), state-aware orchestration may detect that as a change even if the “static” SQL template hasn’t changed. This may result in more frequent model rebuilds.
- Any change to a macro definition or templated logic will be treated as a code change, even if the underlying data or SQL structure remains the same.

> - If you want to leave comments in your source code but don’t want to trigger rebuilds, it is recommended to use regular SQL comments (for example, `-- This is a single-line comment in SQL`) in your query. State-aware orchestration ignores comment-only changes; such annotations will not force model rebuilds across the DAG.

Reviewer 2: This is currently true, however this should change in a couple of weeks, so it's probably not worth updating right now. Instead, this should (once it goes out) be added to reflect the new behavior.

https://www.notion.so/dbtlabs/Code-changes-for-non-deterministic-SQL-2a4bb38ebda7807386f6ee38e5b0f892?source=copy_link

*Detecting code changes*
1. We first look for changes in the pre-rendered SQL (like Mantle/Core does) 
2. iff there is a change, we look at the post-complied SQL (with whitespace and comments stripped out like we do for Fusion currently)

Author: Removed `Detecting code changes` section for now

Reviewer 2: Sounds good

### Handling concurrent jobs

> If two separate jobs both depend on the same downstream model (for example, `model_ab`), and both jobs detect upstream changes (`updates_on = any`), then `model_ab` may run twice &mdash; once per job.

Reviewer 2: Clarify: only if something has changed though. If nothing has changes, then the second job will simply reuse model_ab

Author: Revised here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8234/changes#diff-ad798a159c003c98c28f29456ba1d0e295b58d33c976f5ed18c07c567f822080R45

> Under state-aware orchestration, each job independently evaluates whether a model needs rebuilding based on the model’s compiled code and upstream data state. It does not enforce a single build per model across different jobs.

Reviewer 2: I don't like this. This is really more like:

Under state-aware orchestration, all job read and write from the same shared state and build a model only when either the code or data state has changed. This means that each job individually evaulates whether a model needs rebuilding based on the model’s compiled code and upstream data state.

Could also add: If you want to prevent a job from being built too frequently even when the code or data state has changed, you can slow down any model by using the build_after config (LINK TO DOCS ON HOW TO DO THIS).

Author: Revised here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8234/changes#diff-ad798a159c003c98c28f29456ba1d0e295b58d33c976f5ed18c07c567f822080R47

And added `build_after` paragraph here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8234/changes#diff-ad798a159c003c98c28f29456ba1d0e295b58d33c976f5ed18c07c567f822080R54
